Alright so let's go through the
solution to the problem that we talked
about at the end of the last video.
So the widgets grown as much as that needed
and that's because there's no constraint
to prevent it from doing so and because
also it's set to wrap content now if we
didn't have the buttons on the screen
that would probably be okay because we
could make it scrollable but we really
don't want it going behind the buttons
as it's doing right now so to fix it we
need to constrain its bottom edge now
ideally I'd have done that first and
that's because now I can't constrain the
bottom edge to the buttons the edit text
widgets in the way now sometimes
possible if the bottom constraint
handles visible but even then it's very
fiddly so it's generally a good idea to
set constraints before adding content it
may be possible to resize it by dragging
the resize handles up the screen but
sometimes the resize handle isn't
available either they're off the bottom
of the screen so what I suggest you do
here is to delete the text set the
constraint then paste the text back in
and that would ordinarily be the easiest
way to sort this out however it doesn't
let me demonstrate how much constraint
works quite as effectively as what I'm
going to do so in other words I'm not
going to do it the easy way what I'm
going to do instead is change the
vertical sizing to fixed so making sure
the edit text is selected I'm going to
click on these vertical lines until the
straight lines appear on the inner lines
I should say to the vertical lines
appear when two straight lines appear
which is fixed and if it doesn't shrink
enough which it hasn't in my case you
need to also change the layer width so
if we change the layout height to 200 DP
that should be enough for us to do what
we need to do and press Enter and you
can see now that ty we've got some space
between the bottom of the edit text and
the buttons in other words the bottom
constraint handles now visible all right
so at this point we can set the bottom
constraint of the edit text to the top
of the buttons now it doesn't really
matter which button we choose but it
sort of seems logical to use the cancel
button now the ok buttons already
constrained to cancel so that sort of
makes the cancel button as
sort of key widget so for that reason
I'm going to constrain the bottom of the
edit text widget to the top of the
cancel button now remember that you have
to drag to the constraint handle on the
destination widget in previous versions
of Android studio you could just drag to
a point anywhere along the edge but
that's no longer the case so I'm just
going to drag from the bottom of the
edit text drag over to the top of the
cancel button and you can see that our
edit text is now moved now that I've
done that it's easy to see why I had a
problem why I had problems a minute ago
I set the height of the edit text widget
to wrap content and as soon as I set it
back to wrap annals core content again
we end up having the same problem and
that's because the widget now grows down
past the buttons again now I've
mentioned earlier in this section that
the match constraints setting was like
match parent but that it's different
because it respects constraints now as
you can see with what I've done wrap
content that doesn't respect constraints
what we really want here is match
constraint instead now I'm going to
click on the vertical in Alliance twice
to set the height to match constraint
rock or easily it just as easily have
come here and selected to match
constraint I'm going to do that
particular twice from fix and then back
to match constraint and notice that what
I've done that we've now got some space
between the bottom of our widget and the
top of the buttons now I also want to
make sure now that the width itself is
set to match constraint as well so I'm
going to go ahead and do that here
because that's what we want here in
landscape mode the edit text can get
wider rather than being a fixed width so
yes you can see here that the match
constraint has fixed this problem now if
you hadn't already guessed I used wrap
and I've called content pair
deliberately so if you're used to the
earlier layouts in Android then you'll
automatically set rep underscore content
out of habit is a very descriptive name
for what it does and frankly old habits
die hard
all right so it's coming along nicely
and it's taken far longer to explain
than it would take to do it but
hopefully it all makes sense and you can
see how the constraints work as long as
you're patient and wait a second for the handles
flesh dragging the constraints where you
want them is quite easy all right so
I've tried to show all the constraints
on this next slide so that you can pause
the video and check that you have
something similar now on the left of
screenshots of the inspector paint for
the four widgets and on the right is how
the designer should appear with all the
constraints showing now your widgets may
have different IDs on these screens my
buttons are called button two and button
three but the numbers are assigned
automatically now if you've added and
deleted widgets then the IDS may differ
slightly everything else should look the
same though know if you're getting
problems changing the value of any of
the margins ignore that for now just
leave the margin to whatever it's said
to I'm going to be discussing a bug that
sometimes causes that problem and show
you what to do about it all right so
we've still got the image to add but
what I'm going to do is finish the video
here and in the next video we'll add
that image but prior to that or run the
program just to see how it behaves so
I'll see you in the next video.